EDU-3394: How to mock Nexus operations in Go SDK (#3184)
temporalio/documentation: docs/develop/go/test-suites.mdx

  - Running Activities with mocked Context and other SDK imports (and usually network requests).
  - Running Workers with mock Activities, and using a Client to start Workflows.
  - Running Workflows with mocked SDK imports.
- **Unit:**
  - Running a piece of Workflow or Activity code (a function or method) and mocking any code it calls.

>   - Running a piece of Nexus operation and mocking the handler.

Reviewer: I would remove this because this isn't testing the nexus operation. It's testing a piece of Workflow code that executes an operation, which is included above.

If an Activity is supposed to react to a Cancellation, you can test whether it reacts correctly by canceling it.

## Mock and override Nexus operations

> A workflow that executes a Nexus operation can be tested by providing a mock of the Nexus operation

Reviewer 2: workflow should be uppercased. If you use Vale or throw this into a Vale-supported editor or IDE (I use Sublime, also works with VSCode), they are automatically highlighted and you can hover over anything and see why it was highlighted. Caution: the signal to noise ratio isn't great.

Alternatively, you can ask us to do an edit pass after content is complete and technically reviewed. Specify your comfort level of how much we can reword.

That is independent of this read-through, which I'm doing for flow and as a reader.

or overriding its implementation with the Nexus mock environment. This allows you to test the

> workflow without needing to create a Nexus handler service to run the Nexus operation.

Reviewer 2: Consider switching these two sentences, along the lines of: "Mocking lets you test a Workflow without needing a Nexus handler service to run an actual Nexus operation. You can mock the Nexus operation or override its implementation with the Nexus mock environment." It establishes the motivation first and the actions second.

> Let's take a look at a test that simulates a Nexus operation call. Assume the Nexus operation is

Reviewer 2: Style guide suggests avoiding "we" voice (Let's). You can reword with "Consider a test that simulates..." to avoid.
Also consider s/Assume/In this example/ because that avoids directly telling the reader what to do, and minimizes the reader's need or desire to remember these roles.

I really like that you explain that it simulates a Nexus operation call _first_.

called `sample-operation`, the input type is `SampleInput`, the output type is `SampleOutput`, and
it belongs to the Nexus service `sample-service`.

```go
func (s *UnitTestSuite) Test_SimpleWorkflow_NexusSyncOperation() {
        s.env.OnNexusOperation(
                "sample-service",
                nexus.NewOperationReference[SampleInput, SampleOutput]("sample-operation"),
                SampleInput{},
                workflow.NexusOperationOptions{},
        ).Return(
                &nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultSync[SampleOutput]{
                        Value: SampleOutput{},
                },

>                 nil, // error if you want to simulate an error in the ExecuteOperation call

Reviewer 2: This is a really nice value-added comment.

        )
        // You can also add a delay to return the mock values by calling After().
        // Eg: s.env.OnNexusOperation(...).Return(...).After(1*time.Second)

        s.env.ExecuteWorkflow(SimpleWorkflow, "test_nexus_operation")

        s.True(s.env.IsWorkflowCompleted())
        s.NoError(s.env.GetWorkflowError())
}
```

> The example above simulates a call to a Nexus synchronous operation, indicated by the returned value

Reviewer 2: Consider whether to move this above the sample, so people can look for the relevant parts after knowing what it _should_ be doing (simulates a call to a synchronous Nexus operation). In doing so, it builds and returns a ?pointer? ?handler? to a new whatever.

> type `*nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultSync[T]`. Since `OnNexusOperation` needs to know the

Reviewer 2: I found this a little confusing and I think re-ordering some of the sentences might help. 

I think (but may be wrong):

* `nexus.NewOperationReference` creates an operation reference.
* The reference includes the signature of the operation method but does not have access to implementation details.
* If you know the operation directly, you can call it? 

Why would you use the operation directly instead of the reference? This is what confused me the most. When would you have it "available"? Is it because you created an instance of a type or are using a class method? What role does this have in testing?

Author: Updated the text, hopefully it's more clear now.

operation's name, input and output, `nexus.NewOperationReference` creates an operation reference
that represents the operation without knowing the implementation (basically, it represents the
signature of the operation). You may also use the operation itself instead of creating the operation
reference if you have it available.

> Let's take an example of simulating a call to an Nexus asynchronous operation.

Reviewer 2: I think this needs something more like: You've seen a synchronous call but you can also test asynchronous operations. The following example demonstrates ...something about testing asynchronous...

Does it do this by setting a timer? Failing if it triggers?

Reviewer 2: Oh and I see on line 225 that there's the simulated delay for how long this operation took now...

```go
func (s *UnitTestSuite) Test_SimpleWorkflow_NexusAsyncOperation() {
        s.env.OnNexusOperation(
                "sample-service",
                nexus.NewOperationReference[SampleInput, SampleOutput]("sample-operation"),
                SampleInput{},
                workflow.NexusOperationOptions{},
        ).Return(
                &nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultAsync{
                        OperationID: "sample-operation-id",
                },

>                 nil, // error if you want to simulate an error in the ExecuteOperation call

Reviewer 2: I love these comments, especially line 222 and 225.

Also nit: are you sure you don't want to space out the multiplication? You probably have your own style guide on that.

Author: > are you sure you don't want to space out the multiplication?

What do you mean?

Reviewer 2: I was referring to spaces to either side of the asterisk. I'm marking the conversation as resolved.

        )
        err := env.RegisterNexusAsyncOperationCompletion(
                "sample-service",
                "sample-operation",
                "sample-operation-id", // must match the OperationID above
                SampleOutput{},
                nil,            // error if you want to simulation an error in the operation
                2*time.Second,  // delay to simulate how long the operation takes after it starts
        )
        s.NoError(err)
        s.env.ExecuteWorkflow(SimpleWorkflow, "test_nexus_operation")

        s.True(s.env.IsWorkflowCompleted())
        s.NoError(s.env.GetWorkflowError())
}
```

> In the example above, the `OperationID` in the `*nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultAsync` object can

Reviewer 2: My quick read-through doesn't show multiple asynchronous calls, so maybe that should be a separate paragraph, and any details on how you'd do that?

Author: I just meant that the user can mock more than one Nexus async operation with different `OperationID`, and they would have to call `RegisterNexusAsyncOperationCompletion` for each of them with the corresponding `OperationID`.

be any string of your choice, and it is used in the `RegisterNexusAsyncOperationCompletion` call to
register the result of the corresponding asynchronous operation. With this, you can mock multiple
asynchronous Nexus operations and register the results for each of them in the same workflow.

> If you need to run some custom logic for the Nexus operation, you can do as follows.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to see in-text what the custom logic is, and how that differs from the previous examples.

Author: By custom logic, I mean any logic the user might want. Let try to be more clear.

If an Activity is supposed to react to a Cancellation, you can test whether it reacts correctly by canceling it.

## Mock and override Nexus operations

Mocking Nexus operations lets you test a Workflow that executes Nexus operations without needing a
Nexus handler servier to run the actual Nexus operation. You can mock the Nexus operation or

> override its implementation with the Nexus mock environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
override its implementation with the test workflow environment.
```

Reviewer 2: Will do a pass later to do things like put sentences on separate lines and uppercase Workflow.

Reviewer 2: Also: "test Workflow" or "Workflow test"? Does the latter make more sense?

Reviewer: It's called TestWorkflowEnvironment in the code.

```go
func (s *UnitTestSuite) Test_SimpleWorkflow_NexusAsyncOperation() {
        s.env.OnNexusOperation(
                "sample-service",
                nexus.NewOperationReference[SampleInput, SampleOutput]("sample-operation"),
                SampleInput{},
                workflow.NexusOperationOptions{},
        ).Return(
                &nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultAsync{
                        OperationID: "sample-operation-id",
                },
                nil, // error if you want to simulate an error in the ExecuteOperation call
        )
        err := env.RegisterNexusAsyncOperationCompletion(
                "sample-service",
                "sample-operation",
                "sample-operation-id", // must match the OperationID above
                SampleOutput{},
                nil,            // error if you want to simulate an error in the operation
                2*time.Second,  // delay to simulate how long the operation takes after it starts
        )
        s.NoError(err)
        s.env.ExecuteWorkflow(SimpleWorkflow, "test_nexus_operation")

        s.True(s.env.IsWorkflowCompleted())
        s.NoError(s.env.GetWorkflowError())
}
```

> If your Workflow executed multiple Nexus asynchronous operations, you can mock each of them with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Workflow executes multiple Nexus asynchronous operations, you can mock each of them with
```

> If your Workflow executed multiple Nexus asynchronous operations, you can mock each of them with

Reviewer: Maybe add another section showing the the `WorkflowRunOperation` works with the test environment and explain that the client provided to `temporalnexus.NewSyncOperation` is fake and will panic if you try to use it.

Author: Why do we have the `temporalnexus.NewSyncOperation`?

Reviewer 2: Checked in Slack, confirmed this issue is considered resolved.

Reviewer: > Why do we have the temporalnexus.NewSyncOperation

Because it injects a client into the handler function, which we believe is useful.

> Note that unless the Activity invocations are mocked or Activity implementation replaced (see [Activity mocking and overriding](#mock-and-override-activities)), the test environment will execute the actual Activity code including any calls to outside services.

> After executing the Workflow in the above example, we assert that the Workflow ran through completion via the call to `s.env.IsWorkflowCompleted()`. We also assert that no errors were returned by asserting on the return value of `s.env.GetWorkflowError()`.

Reviewer 2: I think it's the code that is doing the assertions rather than "We" (which the style guide doesn't like). The test asserts that the Workflow ran through completion, using the call to `s.env.IsWorkflowCompleted()`, and that no errors were returned (`s.NoError(s.env.GetWorkflowError())`).

Consider moving this to the previous section since it describes code that lives there, and perhaps talking about in testing the Workflow, all assertions regarding proper operation must pass. Once passed, if the Workflow returned a value, you could retrieve it by calling `s.env.GetWorkflowResult....` in this section.

Author: This text is not by me. I'm just fixing the typo there: `IsWorkflowComplete` -> `IsWorkflowCompleted`.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Marking resolved.

Learn to skip time in Activities in the SDK of your choice.

> ## Testing Nexus Operations {#test-nexus}

Reviewer: This should be renamed `Mock and override Nexus Operations` and moved below `Mock and override Activities`.

A Nexus operation can be tested with a mock Nexus environment, which provides a way to mock the
Nexus operation. This behavior allows you to test the Nexus operation in isolation by calling it

> directly without needing to create a Nexus handler service to run the Nexus operation.

Reviewer: This isn't for testing a nexus operation, it's for testing a workflow that execute nexus operations.
Please clarify.

### Mock and override Nexus operations

Let's take a look at a test that simulates a Nexus operation call. Assume that the Nexus operation
is called `sample-operation`, the input type is `SampleInput`, the output type is `SampleOutput`,
and it belongs to the Nexus service `sample-service`.

```go
func (s *UnitTestSuite) Test_SimpleWorkflow_NexusSyncOperation() {
        s.env.OnNexusOperation(
                "sample-service",
                nexus.NewOperationReference[SampleInput, SampleOutput]("sample-operation"),
                SampleInput{},
                workflow.NexusOperationOptions{},
        ).Return(
                &nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultSync[SampleOutput]{
                        Value: SampleOutput{},
                },
                nil, // error if you want to simulate an error in the ExecuteOperation call

>         )

Reviewer: I would add a comment saying you can optionally delay this and show how.

signature of the operation). You may also use the operation itself instead of creating the operation
reference if you have it available.

Let's take an example of simulating a call to an Nexus asynchronous operation.

```go
func (s *UnitTestSuite) Test_SimpleWorkflow_NexusAsyncOperation() {
        s.env.OnNexusOperation(
                "sample-service",
                nexus.NewOperationReference[SampleInput, SampleOutput]("sample-operation"),
                SampleInput{},
                workflow.NexusOperationOptions{},
        ).Return(
                &nexus.HandlerStartOperationResultAsync{
                        OperationID: "sample-operation-id",
                },
                nil, // error if you want to simulate an error in the ExecuteOperation call
        )
        err := env.RegisterNexusAsyncOperationCompletion(
                "sample-service",
                "sample-operation",
                "sample-operation-id", // must match the OperationID above
                SampleOutput{},
                nil,            // error if you want to simulation an error in the operation

>                 2*time.Second,  // delay to simulate how long the operation takes

Reviewer: This is from the time the operation start was simulated, right? Maybe clarify that?
